---
description: College Board
title: Big Idea 5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects
toc: true
categories: [markdown]
layout: post
---

### Main Idea
Every invention whether it's in computer science or something else, has its benefits and its downsides/ disruptions
- Ex: Chat GPT
    - Chat GPT helps people create assignments just by running through it
    - redfines the necessity and purpose of search engines
    - However, it discourages critical thinking
    - Also, Chat GPT is full of bias because there is only one answer and other answers are not considered

### Dopamine and its Benefits and Negatives
Dopamine is another example of something that has borth positive and negative effects
- Rosner was a professional gamer who was an example of this. He was celebrated as a World of Warcraft builder and he got lots of dopamine from his success. However, this dopamine was although exciting, it was also detrimental for Rosner. He reported that his grades started tanking and found other healthier activities such as going to the gym and watching films. 
- Thus, there were both benefits and harmful effects to Dopamine

### Phone Trees
Phone Trees are another example where despite a reduction in need for employees, the process of getting the customer to where they want was time consuming and inconvenient (harmful effect)

## Blog Post Reflection
1. Most developers try to aim for positive effects. However, not every effect of a computing innovation is anticipated in advance. Some effects are harmful.
For example, inventors of television, computers, mobile devices, and social media did not intend to unleash a slew of negative consequences for children.
- shortened attention spans
- lack of connection to nature
- cyber bullying and hate groups
- spread of misingormation and fake news
The intention was to produce a convenient and modern form of entertainment which in some ways, these fields achieve their goals. 
2. Dopamine Issues are definetely real and I have experienced these issues myself. Sometimes, I can get caught up watching videos or scrolling through social media because of that instant dopamine effect which definetely prevented me from doing homework and affecting my academics. However, some forms of dopamine can definetely be beneficial.Finishing a project you worked long and hard on or helping others can serve as sources of dopamine that aren't necessarily bad.
